One of the questions asked,
was raised, sounds like a way for
a child state to send events
to the parent states.
Can I use it for that, too?
The short answer is yes, and
that's exactly what we're going to be
doing in the compound states lesson.
And so again, raising an event makes it so
that even if the child is handling
a different event but it needs the machine
to behave as if another event handled
in potentially a different state.
But with handle it then raising event
basically lets you abstract that away.
So updates should not be performed
solely on the value of the target,
they should only be
performed on an action.
So I'm interpreting updates to
mean what is shown in the UI, and
also what side effects are executed.
Side effects which are things
that are done externally,
those should always be done in actions.
Now the way that UI changes,
we could have just what we
consider to be implicit actions.
And react, and other frameworks
sort of just abstract this away for
you, because anytime we're
changing something in the UI,
that is actually an action or side effect.
It's just that we abstract that
away in a declarative view layer,
which is what react and view and
other popular frameworks provide.
So over here we're just synchronizing
the UI to the state, and
that's based on the actual state,
like Loading, Play, Pause.
Now if we want to get really granular,
we could do something like when
we enter the loading state,
show the Loading button when we exit the
loading state, hide the loading button.
But that's gonna get very
verbose very quickly.
And so that's, again,
why frameworks exist, and
why right now we're just synchronizing
the state with those attributes.
So it's up to you to decide
whether you want to represent
updates as actions, or
as just synchronizing with state.
But yeah, just keep in mind that external
side effects should be done in actions,
or actions executed in
sequence will Raise skip,
only start executing after
dislike song is done.
So, yeah, the way that this works,
and, in fact,
I'm gonna take this and I'm gonna copy it.
And we are going to put this
inside the visualizer so
that we could just take a look at it.
Let's import Raise from
next day live actions.
All right, so the way that the actions
are going to be executed, for
example, when we're in the loading state,
and the loaded event happens,
now we're in the playing states, and
let's say we want to skip this song.
What's gonna happen is that skip song,
because it's a transition action,
that's going to be executed first.
And since we're exiting
the playing states,
now the Pause Audio action
is going to happen.
I'm pretty sure, and
also you should not be
super dependent on the order of actions.
Assume that the actions are going to be
run at the same time even though they're
not run concurrently, just don't depend
too much on the order of actions.
If you do want actions to run in sequence,
like this action needs to run before this
one, then that's something that should
be represented in separate states.
So that it is 100% clear and precise
which actions are going to execute when.
Another question, I'm curious why X state
has many ways to do the same thing.
It seems there's a preferred way,
so why allow so
many ways such as inline actions
versus using with config, etc.
So part of this is just
the evolution of the X state.
It's a state machine and state chart's
library that's about six years old.
So it's gone through a lot of iteration,
and also it's about the purpose
of what you use it for.
So X state is meant to be like this hybrid
of allowing you to model your states and
your logic, and
also allowing you to implement it.
So just like we're doing in this lesson,
we're implementing our actions
in the nice and quick way.
Like, I honestly appreciate that I
could just type in whatever action,
and worry about the implementation later.
Because this is something that
can be immediately visualized,
handed off to someone without
having to think I actually
didn't implement that yet so
I can't share with you the diagram or
the model that we're gonna
be programming against.
So, I also want to say, too,
that if X state only allowed one way,
it would be very verbose.
So for example, actions, let's say
that every action required a type,
which this is what it's converted to, and
the actions can have multiple
actions inside of them.
So this is how you would have
to type everything, and so for
example this target, or yeah,
the target is already playing this,
you'd have to put it in an array.
So I do see the benefit of
staying consistent, and
that's something that
I've heard in the past.
However, as a prototyping tool,
that becomes a friction point.
And so that's why X state does
have a couple of different ways of
doing the same thing.
In the future with X state version 5 and
other helper libraries on top of X state,
it's going to make it easier to enforce
a single way of doing something.
And also,
we are going to be updating the docs and
we're gradually doing so already,
where we only emphasize one way of
doing things such as typing your actions,
or putting your states in.
But the key is that we want you to
be able to move fast with actually
modeling your application,
instead of having to drown
yourself in a bunch of syntax
that you might not need.
Another question in the chat,
can you recap what Raise does
in how it compares to send?
And so that's something
that we're also going to be
talking about in the last lesson,
or second to the last lesson,
on actors, is that Raise is
a machine sending events to itself.
Send is either a machine
sending an event to itself, or
sending an event to another machine.
I recommend you use Raise if you're
sending events to yourself, and you Send
if you're sending events to another actor,
or machine which is an actor.
So, that's in short the difference there,
and
in version 5 we're going to consolidate
it so that Send becomes Sent To,
and really becomes an action for
sending to a separate actor.
And encouraging the use of rays in order
to send in events to the machine itself.
And another question,
does Raise work with parallel states, too?
We're gonna be talking about parallel
states in the future lesson, but
yes, Raise works everywhere.